wp upload dir "MAY 2013" WordPress Codex "Function Reference"
=============================================================

NAME
----

wp upload dir - Returns an array of **key =\> value** pairs containing path information

SYNOPSIS
--------

Returns an array of **key =\> value** pairs containing path information
on the currently configured uploads directory.

Checks the 'upload\_path' option, which should be from the web root
folder, and if it isn't empty it will be used. If it is empty, then the
path will be 'WP\_CONTENT\_DIR/uploads'. If the 'UPLOADS' constant is
defined, then it will override the 'upload\_path' option and
'WP\_CONTENT\_DIR/uploads' path.

The upload URL path is set either by the 'upload\_url\_path' option or
by using the 'WP\_CONTENT\_URL' constant and appending '/uploads' to the
path.

If the 'uploads\_use\_yearmonth\_folders' is set to true (checkbox if
checked in the administration settings panel), then the time will be
used. The format will be year first and then month.

If the path couldn't be created, then an error will be returned with the
key `'error'` containing the error message. The error suggests that the
parent directory is not writable by the server.

On success, the returned array will have many indices:

    * 'path' - base directory and sub directory or full path to upload directory.
    * 'url' - base url and sub directory or absolute URL to upload directory.
    * 'subdir' - sub directory if uploads use year/month folders option is on.
    * 'basedir' - path without subdir.
    * 'baseurl' - URL path without subdir.
    * 'error' - set to false.

USAGE
-----

    <?php $upload_dir = wp_upload_dir(); ?>

PARAMETERS
----------

 `$time` 
:   ([*string*](/How_to_Pass_Tag_Parameters#String "How to Pass Tag Parameters"))
    (*optional*) Time formatted in 'yyyy/mm'.
    Default: null

EXAMPLE
-------

Basic example to produce the upload directory URL.

    <?php $upload_dir = wp_upload_dir(); ?>
    <?php echo $upload_dir['baseurl']; ?>

More in-depth break down of the data returned.

    <?php 
    $uploads = wp_upload_dir(); // Array of key => value pairs
    /*
        $uploads now contains something like the following (if successful)
        Array ( 
            [path] => C:\path\to\wordpress\wp-content\uploads\2010\05 
            [url] => http://example.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05 
            [subdir] => /2010/05 
            [basedir] => C:\path\to\wordpress\wp-content\uploads 
            [baseurl] => http://example.com/wp-content/uploads 
            [error] => 
        ) 
        // Descriptions
        [path] - base directory and sub directory or full path to upload directory.
        [url] - base url and sub directory or absolute URL to upload directory.
        [subdir] - sub directory if uploads use year/month folders option is on.
        [basedir] - path without subdir.
        [baseurl] - URL path without subdir.
        [error] - set to false.
    */

    echo $uploads['path'] . '<br />';
    echo $uploads['url'] . '<br />';
    echo $uploads['subdir'] . '<br />';
    echo $uploads['basedir'] . '<br />';
    echo $uploads['baseurl'] . '<br />';
    echo $uploads['error'] . '<br />';


    $upload_dir = ( $uploads['url'] );
    $upload_dir_alt = ( $uploads['baseurl'] . $uploads['subdir'] );

    // Now echo the final result
    echo $upload_dir . '<br />'; // Output - http://example.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05 

    // Using year and month based folders, the below will be the same as the line above.
    echo $upload_dir_alt . '<br />'; // Output - http://example.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05 
    ?>

IMPORTANT NOTE
--------------

Note that using this function **will create a subfolder in your Uploads
folder** corresponding to the queried month (or current month, if no
`$time` argument is provided), if that folder is not already there. You
don't have to upload anything in order for this folder to be created.

FOLDER NAME
-----------

In case you want to move the `/uploads` folder, you'll have to use the
`UPLOADS` constant. It normally shouldn't get used, as it only get's
defined when `ms_default_constants()` is run (only multisite), but you
can simply set

    define( 'UPLOADS', trailingslashit( WP_CONTENT_FOLDERNAME ).'custom_uploads_name' );

in a single site install and it will just work, as the public directory
structure function `wp_upload_dir()` sets it up, when it was defined:
`$dir = ABSPATH . UPLOADS;`.

*Note:* You can extract the folder name with the following line:

    // returns `false` if the UPLOADS constant is not defined
    $upload_dir_name = false;
    if ( defined( 'UPLOADS' ) )
        str_replace( trailingslashit( WP_CONTENT_FOLDERNAME ), '', untrailingslashit( UPLOADS ) );

CHANGE LOG
----------

Since: [2.0.0](/Version_2.0 "Version 2.0")

SOURCE FILE
-----------

`wp_upload_dir()` is located in `wp-includes/functions.php`.

